YOU SCREWED UP BITCOIN AND NOW YOU'RE SCREWED TOO

It’s hard to overstate what an incredible screw up it was for privacy
and freedom to turn Bitcoin against its original purpose as e-cash for 
micropayments[1] into an investment asset purchased on exchanges and held 
for gains in fiat.

Here’s how Bitcoin was intended to work by Satoshi Nakamoto. 

a. Miners mine Bitcoin. 
b. Miners use their coins to buy goods and services, especially 
   things they can't otherwise do without Bitcoin[2].
c. These same people trade their coins to other service providers, 
   peer-to-peer, in exchange for whatever they offer. It's cash.
d. Profit. We have an economy.

All of this could have been done totally privately without KYC or 
regulation because people would just be earning something for a good or
service they provide and trading it for another one they want. Because most payments
are small, they wouldn't even fall under existing AML/KYC legislation requirments.

Here’s how Bitcoin ended up working because short sighted devs and
exchange operators decided that Bitcoin didn't need to be useful as cash 
and ought to be treated like an investment instead.

a. Miners mine Bitcoin. 
b. Miners sell these Bitcoin to investors on regulated KYC exchanges.[3] 
c. Investors buy these Bitcoin on regulated KYC exchanges. 
d. People hold these Bitcoin. Eventually, sell them back to KYC exchanges.[4]
e. Profit ??????? 
f. Wait what??

Do you see what a disaster this is and that it didn't have to be this way?

If Bitcoin had been usable as cash, and if people had understood that
the intent and design of Bitcoin necessitated that it be cash, and not
a token you trade on exchanges, we could have avoided, postponed, or
softened a lot of the dark stuff that is yet to come when everyone
wakes up to the fact that a majority of Bitcoin holders and users
unwittingly KYCd themselves on a public ledeger and will be easily 
tracked and traced on-chain, censored, taxed, etc.

What this looks like is near total and complete survelliance
over the financial system if Bitcoin ever takes off, coin blacklists, 
Bitcoin addresses forever tied to your name so that governments and 
thieves or hackers can harass and control you. And no, mixers won't
save you, and even being un-kyc'd won't save you either, but these are
topics for another essay.

As it is, it’s probably too late to avoid much pain. A lot of people
incorrectly believe they are safe, private and free with Bitcoin, . They’re
going to learn otherwise the hard way one day soon.

Welcome to...reality.
 
[1] The argument was that limiting the block-size to keep the cost of
    running a node cheap, Bitcoin would be more resilient to takeover,
    more private, etc. This came at the expense of limiting Bitcoin's
    transaction throughput capacity, so the idea became that Bitcoin was 
    actually never intended to be cash, but digital gold, and investment 
    tool.

[2] Regular merchant adoption was always a later stage of development,
    preceeeded by things that *only* Bitcoin could accomplish like
    micropayments for data, gambling, digital downloads, etc, or
    grey and black markets that needed a reliable way to take payments
    that was resistant to shutdown by banks, governments or the issues
    that typically plague these markets like payment fraud.
    
 [3] The widspread use of KYC in Bitcoin is a total disaster. Millions
     of real identities have been forever tied to specific UTXOs. So
     much for fungibility.
     
 [4] If they do use it as a payment method, they usually make substantially
     larger transactions, which makes them more likely to fall under existing
     regulatory structure.
 
 Last updated---2022/05/31
