---
permalink: 2.txt
---
Speculation. KYC "critical mass" is when the economic majority—maybe
70% or more—of Bitcoin users are KYCd. Many Bitcoiners think this is 
not a problem because the privacy malpractice of others is not your concern. 
That is not true.

What might happen then is that Bitcoin addresses that have not been 
KYCd will be flagged, tracked, traced, and eventually blacklisted. 
Governments will get away with this because the economic majority who 
are already KYCd will not be affected by it and may in fact think its a 
good thing for people to be indentified. 

What began as something good—the fact that you properly managed your
on-chain privacy— turns into a kind of Scarlet Letter attatched to
your coins.

"So? Who is going to stop me from sending my funds peer-to-peer?" Good
 question. The government will. They can do this in several ways. 

More directly, they can issue "do-not-mine" orders to miners in an
attempt to prevent them from processing transactions from addresses
that aren't identified. This may or may not work. Less directly, they
can pass legislation that holds businesses or individuals liable for
doing business with addresses that have not been identified. This
would essentially cut you off from the mainstream economy because
nobody wants to be punished by doing business with you. Even less
directly, at some point in the future after your transaction, the
person you did business with will do business with someone else, who
might do business with something that requires KYC. Governments can
trace these funds back now, person to person, until someone reveals
some bit of information they have on you.

Obviously there are exceptions to this. Maybe off-chain
transactions will solve a lot of this concern. Maybe improvements to
the privacy of Bitcoin layer 1 will make KYC a non-issue. Maybe
miners, businesses and corporate stuctures will decentralise to the
point where they don't have a single point of failure that the
government can blackmail against accepting coins without KYC. Maybe,
God-willing, all the exchanges will go "poof" and disapear, so that
people will stop entering the Bitcoin economy through regulated, KYC
channels. 

Probably not. The point is that the viability of your privacy strategy 
on Bitcoin depends at least in part upon forces largely outside of your
control. KYC affects us all.
