[Cryptography] Bitcoin is a disaster.
Deryk Makgill makgill at makgill.ch 
Thu Dec 31 17:25:02 EST 2020

‐‐‐‐‐‐‐ Original Message ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
On Thursday, December 31, 2020 2:17 PM, Ray Dillinger <bear at sonic.net> wrote:

> He did predict centralization into specialized businesses. He did not
> predict that a "centralization" entailed a race to find the single most
> corrupt available country in the world, where electricity could be
> cheap because it was stolen.  
>
> Emphasis on "single country." The disaster is not centralization
> itself; the disaster is that mining is centralized in one country.

Great point. There is a difference between a free market process the
works out a few regions of the world as being the ideal place to conduct
a particular kind of business, and centralisation due to subsidies (theft)
from a totalitarian state (that's putting it lightly). That's an
opportunity for state capture.

> Yes, the plan was to raise the size of the blocks.  And yes, I think it
> should have been done. The 1MB limit was considered temporary. We got
> the current limit just to prevent people from filling space with dumb
> stuff but thought, of course they'll make it bigger when people
> actually need the space for legit transactions. But now they can't
> make it bigger, because that was a classic case of nerds making a
> design mistake by failing to note that we were leaving a decision in
> the hands of people with perverse incentives.

Yes! If you try to play central-planner and predict the exact moment you need to
raise the blocksize, you'll f*ck it up and may lose your opportunity entirely.
And as you said, the troll army that ran disinformation campaigns and attacked
node implementations and companies trying to raise the blocksize with letters
to the SEC, DDoS, delistings and negative review brigades were highly
effective.

>Miners have a financial stake in the blocks
> continuing to be small, because bidding goes higher for a smaller
> amount of block space.

That's an interesting idea. I remember a lot of miners wanting to raise the
blocksize—ViaBTC, BTC.top, Bitcoin.com, AntPool, BTC.com... though talk is
cheap and in the end they certainly didn't get it done.

Regarding their financial incentives, is it not true that economies of scale
in transaction processing might net them more money than tiny blocks?
I've wondered instead whether it was the block reward that stopped them.
Hard to care about making money off millions of little transaction fees
when your primary revenue comes from a block subsidy that doesn't change
regardless of the block size.

Either way, it's clear there were parties that benefited from small blocks
in that they could build payment layers on top of Bitcoin that the peasants
have to use and pay for. They won. Good for governments too who want to regulate,
good for banks and legacy payment processors...

Thanks the thoughts. Your comments are educational as always.
