This is the story about how I lost all of my Bitcoin SV
domains, as well as quite a few other ones, and some
lessons learned from the experience. 

PSA: Don't use Namecheap if you can avoid it...

I used to own almost every "bitcoinsv" and "bsv" TLD
available on Namecheap. I bought them because, why not? If
it caught on, domain name space could have been valuable.
Imagine owning bitcoin.com or r/bitcoin or bitcoin.org.

So over a period of several months I bought as many of them
as I could and then I listed them on bsv.domains for sale
if anyone wanted to buy one. And people did! I sold quite a
few to different people, though I don't think anyone ever
did anything useful with a domain they bought...

This went on for some time and then...I lost all the TLDs I
owned and I was reminded very clearly that any mixing
between the Bitcoin economy and the dollar economy can
often give you a false sense of security in the ability of
Bitcoin to stop some of things we all find annoying about
traditional payments. 

See what happened is that I purchased all of the domains
with Bitcoin Cash on Namecheap. I did that because I don't
like having recurring payments linked to my credit card for
things like domain names because I always end up forgetting
to cancel and several years of charges will go by before I
finally fix it. Bitcoin Cash solved this because payments
can't be made unless I sign a transaction to authorize
them. Well, the time to renew came and of course, I forgot,
but instead of sending my a reminder that my domains would
be cancelled if I didn't renew, Namecheap billed and old,
expired credit card they had on file for all the domains
anyways even though I had specifically paid in Bitcoin to
avoid that.

I asked Namecheap to reverse the payments once I realised
what had happened and they refused. So, I did what credit
cards are good for and I issued a chargeback.

That's when Namecheap got nasty. They sent me a bunch of
aggressive emails from their fraud department telling me in
no uncertain terms that if I didn't cancel the chargeback
and pay the domain fees, they would hold all my domains
hostage, even ones that had already been paid for. On top
of that, they were assessing a $200 fine per chargebacked
domain.

Ouch. Despite the fact that I owned over 100 domains with
them and was a long-time customer, they refused to budge on
this. I could have paid the ransom, but I really felt like
this time I was in the right. I never authorised my credit
card for those domains. I paid in Bitcoin. They ought to
have understood that the reasons someone pays in Bitcoin is
precisely so they can control when and how their funds are
spent.

So I lost ALL my domains, and its been a hassle trying to
get the important ones back after they expired, which often
took up to a year. And many of the BitcoinSV/BSV domains I
owned were acquired right away or relisted at much higher
prices by Namehcheap themselves, so in the end, I decided
not to be in the domain squatting business again,
especially because I'm not sure BSV/BitcoinSV domains are
going to be valuable, and if BSV ever catches on in a big
global way, it almost certainly won't be called Bitcoin SV.
What a stupid name for a Bitcoin fork.

Lessons learned? Don't use Namecheap if I can avoid it. More
importantly, don't link a credit card to any recurring
service for which you're paying with Bitcoin, even if that
credit card isn't attached to that specific product or
service. They'll run your card anyway.

¯\_(ツ)_/¯

Postscript...

The other day I saw somebody post that they owned bsv.lol.
That made me lol, because I used to own it. I hope they
use it for something other than another stupid 21e8
landing page.
